Previously had looked at cookies as a way to store information and when the user returns we could pull
that information back.
So there's actually another option where we can store information.
So if we want to store a message or something like that so let's create our message and this will just
be hello world.
And what we're going to do is we're going to store this into a local storage.
And this is available within modern browsers so Chrome has that mobile Mozilla mobile browsers have
it.
And most of the modern browsers will have it.
Some of the older ones i.e. 8 i.e. 9 again they're not going to be.
They're probably not going to be able to handle local storage or they probably don't have that built
in.
So a lot of these are customized and dependent on the browser and the newer browsers are all coming
out with this.
So hopefully in a few years looking at local storage this is going to be a problem and we're not going
to have to be mindful of the fact that it might not work on some of the browsers as the users are coming
in.
So local storage it's a dom mechanism and it allows us to store values and securely store those values.
So even when the user refreshes the page this information is saved.
So all you have to do is do local storage so it's again within the dorms so we specify it with local
storage and we've got a few methods.
So first one is to set the item and we can see the format here where we need a name and we need a string
or a value in a string and so on.
So we do store this within this type of format.
So basically we need a name that returns back and we can pull back that value.
So the name is going to be within a string format.
So let's set item and we're just going to call it test we'll call it test 1 and then next we need to
store a value so the value that we're going to store is going to be our string from message.
So let's let's save that.
And then in order to retrieve that information we can do a get item.
So let's let's try that.
And what I want to do is I want to do a condition to see if there is a value stored here and if there
is then we do want to return that value.
So it's not an error condition and we have checked to see if there is a value here and if there is we're
going to return that information and the value that we're going to be looking at is going to be get
items so opposite of item is get item.
And this is where that key value comes into play because we need to specify what value it is that we're
trying to return.
And then next we could output it within our output.
So let's let's set that up so document get element by Id grab the element output and we're going to
simply output it to the h t m l and we need to just local storage get item and if whatever item is available
there.
So let's try that.
So let's refresh the page and refresh the page.
And the second time we refresh it we see the message Hello world.
Because what's happened is now this is stored in our local storage.
And every time we refresh it we're first we're checking to see if it exists and if it does exist then
we're simply outputting it on the page.
So go ahead and pause the video and try this for yourself and see if you can store yourself a secret
message within local storage within your web page and the next part of this lesson we're going to make
this a little bit more dynamic.
So I give it a try try.
Open up your editor and give it a try.
And now let's do something a little bit more dynamic.
So what I want to do is I want to get a value so I want to set a value but I also want to get a value
and again of value and increase it by 1.
So we want to have every time we load up the page I want to output Hello world so we'll keep that same
message but we want to have a number.
So every time I reload it I want the page to show a different number and incrementing number.
So go ahead and pause the video and add that into your script using local storage.
So give you a hint.
Storing a variable a value and then pulling that value back out and retrieving it and then making use
of it with in your script.
So pause the video and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So welcome back.
I hope you had an opportunity to try that out.
And this one is going to be very similar to what we did earlier.
Now look where we're going to look for a value and maybe this value can be count or something like that.
And if it's available then we're going to do variable count equals whatever value is here and we're
going to add 1 to it.
And then instead of putting this part here let's put that value it's one thing to note as well that
we're going to see if we need to parse it into an integer.
So let's try this.
And we actually want to add it to each Timo.
So we're going to add it to that value and let's try this at home.
So refresh and refresh again.
And we still need to set that value so if it doesn't exist then let's go ahead and set that value in
local storage so we can actually get rid of that one now.
And we need to set count.
So it's that count and we'll give it a value of zero.
No let's try it out and see as we're refreshing we're getting that value but we're not returning back
exactly as we need because we're not able to see it as a number so we do want to have it as a number.
So let's update that.
And we saw that there was a few different ways that we can convert it into a number.
So let's just change it to a number.
That's a really good thing about javascript is that we can change the different types.
So what's happening now is that where retrieving that information but for some reason we're not actually
incrementing it.
So let's console log that out and do a little bit of trouble shooting.
So what do you think is going wrong here.
When we're looking at this and we're going into the console we're just going to be returning back that
one value.
So let's go back out into the console will refresh it and I'll show you what's going to happen here.
So every time we're only loading that one.
So what do you think has happened here what do you think has gone wrong here.
And I'm not sure if you able to find the solution but we need to set the value and we're not doing that
so we're not setting that new value.
So that's what the problem is here that we need to once we grab the value we need to set the new value.
So let's try that again now.
And now every time we increment we can see that we're incrementing those values.
So if you go out to that same page and in another browser we see that because we're storing it within
the local storage we always have access to it and we can incremented over here and we can open up that
same file that same file location and all I'm doing is I'm just refreshed on the page.
So what we're doing within the code is where first of all we're taking a look to see if count exists.
If it doesn't exist then we're creating it.
And then the next time it gets refreshed then maybe we should actually even start at one value of 1
and notice that it is pulling this in as a string value.
So the next time that whenever we refreshed the page then we actually do have a value for Count stored
in the local storage.
And even if we open up the browser in another browser as lines go into that page restringing within
the local storage.
So we're able to pick that information up and grab that value and then incremented by 1.
Transforming that string value into a number so we can add them together and then we need to actually
store that updated value back into our local storage so that we do have a running count and then every
time we updated it this gets updated in the local storage as well.
So this time I'm setting it says C.A. is going to be too and I'm just simply outputting it here.
And then the next time I refresh it it takes that stored value which is 2 adds 1 to it.
And then we store the value of 3 4 5 so on and so on.
So that's how you can use local storage to store information store messages and a whole lot more.
So we're going to look at local storage in a little bit more depth coming up in upcoming lessons as
well.
So go out and try this site and see if you can get an incrementing count within your using local storage
within your web page.